# Brand Book
The O Foundation (OFDN) proudly unveils the new logo of OpenSpeaks. The wordmark is crafted in the bold strokes of Inter Bold, whereas the brandmark retains the speech bubble from the original 2017 design. Together, the new design stands as a testament to the ethos of documenting languages, with a focus on marginalized, low- and medium-resourced languages, which is embedded in digital language activism. OpenSpeaks serves as a call to action for communities to reclaim their voices, assert their identity, and articulate their narratives in languages long oppressed by the shadows of colonisation and subsequent socio-cultural transformations. This logo is a visual manifesto, encapsulating the essence of open expression and the bonds of solidarity required for meaningful change. The brandmark, a speech bubble, represents the enduring power of spoken words, one of the earliest surviving human skills to communicate with others. Societies are woven together by the diverse tapestry of languages, where stories, oral histories and all other forms of folk narratives are deeply embedded. The fusion of the speech bubble with the written words, stylised as two separate words, "open" and "speaks", signifies the unity of spoken and written language, celebrating the rich plurality of tongues spoken and scribed across the globe. The tight spacing of small case characters further highlights the importance of the use of languages in informal settings which is vital to the survival of a language.

_Released 18 September 2023_
